---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Reflect on Design Patterns"
date: 2024-12-04
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
---
<p> 
<h1> Design Patterns </h1>
<p> 
  As a software engineer, coming up with project ideas and trying to implement them may sound easy and all but it is 
harder than you think. It is a pain in the butt to start to code from scratch. Trying to implement something and having 
it not work and you try to find out a solution to it but nothing works. I know it sucks however, that is all about to 
change due to this thing called design patterns. What are design patterns you say, well design patterns are reusable 
solutions. Design patterns are already well structured and manageable where you can use it as a base for your project. 
The solution is scalable, meaning that if you want, you can improve the code or you can implement new code as you desire. 
This way it provides a more efficient and flexible way of coding. 
</p>
<p> 
  There are many different types of design patterns depending on what your project is going to be. I am currently working 
on a team project where we implement it using a Next.js application template. The Next.js application template is implemented 
by many different design patterns. Design patterns are classified into three types: Creational, Structural, and Behavioral. 
Singleton Method Pattern Design is one Creational type design pattern that the template has. It ensures that a class has just 
one instance and is accessed across the application. One Structural type design pattern that the template implements (honestly my favorite) 
is that it uses a React component-based design similar to a Composite Method Design Pattern, where the UI is implemented using
multiple components making it easier, reusable, and more clean. A Behavioral type design pattern that the template implements is 
the Template Method design pattern. Which ensures a structure where specific implementations are classified as child classes and 
they are maintained by a parent class.
</p>
<p>
  Overall, design patterns are great for making software engineers' lives of coding easier with having reusable solutions to use. 
With reusable solutions we can focus more on the implementation of features.
</p>

